Bobtons Construction is a premier Construction and Development company based in Gauteng.Established in 1984, Bobtons is a business that prides itself on reputation, quality and reliability.Bobtons offers a unique customer experience that creates memorable, affordable and superior construction products for all of our clients. From start to finish our service will be memorable, neat, efficient and beyond client expectation. We achieve these things by exercising attention to detail, using quality sub-contractors, micro managing and pre planning.Bobtons Construction has extensive industry knowledge gained through many years of experience on previous projects. We boast a strong team of highly qualified and diverse staff. Our efficient and friendly team are ready to take on any project.Bobtons Construction takes pride in all completed projects and values the relationships created with clients throughout the building process. We aim to nourish and maintain these relationships long after our work is complete.Bobtons Construction can help you with your building process every step of the way. We offer full turnkey solutions to our clients in our collection of exclusive services from the conceptual stage to the completion of your project. We can also tailor our services to suit your building needs. We also offer the outsource project management services to those interested.We are a preferred builder with Century Property Developments and are registered with the National Home Builders Registration Council.Specialists In Residential &amp; Commercial Building Projects:Additional Services Offered:Address: Green Centre, 36 Karee Lane, Kyalami Agricultural Holdings, 1684 Tel: +27 11 234 0526 Mob: +27 72 757 7474 Email: This email address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it. Website: www.bobtonsbuilding.co.zaYoutube: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCMz40KBWJHfrzdEtrDQVamw Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/BobtonsConstruction Twitter: https://twitter.com/bobtonsbuilding LinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/company/bobtons-construction Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/bobtonsconstruction/